Midday, Mid-June
Summer weighs heavily on the air in the Tal, with light, heat, pollen, dust and some drifting insects.

At midday there the past two days, the impression is of slightly muted birdsong, whether because of the heat, the thicker vegetation or maybe the goshawk has hungry fledglings. 
Songthrush only singing beyond the Schuetzenhaus, not in the first alders after the walk up from Heiligsbachstrasse as one has been until now. Busy collecting worms from the meadows, as are many blackbirds and robins, including brown fledglings.
Wren, tits, treecreepers, chaffinch, nuthatch, buzzard, jay, goshawk, goldcrest, blackcap, chiffchaff (one, also distant), wood pigeon, stock dove present. I think the blackbirds are on their second brood, from the twittering.

Rodents and moles active. Noticed molehills under trees, poking through the litter. Haven't seen that before, guess the litter conceals it, and I imagined what it is like to navigate the root tangle underground.

Few butterflies, did see a red admiral in the forest beyond the Schuetzenhaus, and a speckled wood by the sycamore that is hemmed by boulders, after the stream goes under the path. First mosquito bite a day or two ago. Cleg-looking flies about too. First cricket or grasshopper I hear singing from the overgrown lawn of an unlived-in house on Fontainengraben yesterday. A glorious lesser stag beetle Dorcus parallelipipedus found stuck in a pot on Villemombler Strasse on the 22nd May. Apple ermine moth caterpillars and the larvae of sawfly Nematus pavidus were eating all the leaves of my young apple and willow, so had to picked off by hand - the sawflies were stinky. Spillages of sand from pavement cracks as the underground gears of the ants grind into activity. Groups of the firebugs with young increasingly seen. Larvae and pupae of ladybirds.  

Trees are thick with leaves apart from noticeably the ashes. Dogwood has green berries, linden drooping with flowers and scent. The smell of stinkhorn floats in danker areas, and once I caught the garlicky stink of that Marasmius alliaceus. Today I saw the first Russula of the year, I think - just poked a finger under it to see if gills brittle as couldn't linger. And I think, a pair of beautiful Amanita citrina, the false death cap. Floury Clitopilus prunulus found dropped by the path today, is there a mushroom picker about? Had seen a little troupe of them growing in the nettles along the path after the Schuetzenhaus a month ago.

Wild strawberries (and the false one) have fruit on the third, cherry trees dropping cherries in the forest and on the streets. Lord and ladies berries too, green. Nuts maturing in frills and knobs on hazelnut and walnut. Apple knobs too. 
Bramble flowering. Yellow flag flowers gone, some leaves have shot up to nearly two metres tall. Thistles, bindweed, poppies, yarrow, chicory, small geranium on lawns, all flowering these past few weeks. Other flowers seen too but they seem to have been planted or sown by humans - in flower beds and around the cleared pond, so not sure whether to count them - chamomile, cornflower.

Activities people are doing in the Tal these days include dogwalking, pram pushing, running, walking, cycling, Pfand-hunting, potentially mushroom-hunting, watercress gathering, water drawing from the Bach, sunbathing, barbeques, tree surgery and harvesting by the Stadt Bonn and some other people behind the Schuetzenhaus. The DerletalFest is coming up next weekend, I wonder how that will affect the place.

I think the most exciting thing is the metamorphosis going on in the first pond. What was hundreds of tadpoles one month ago are now hundreds of froglets! Or maybe rather toadlings! There are still tadpoles with no legs and tadpoles with legs but there are definitively tetrapods with tails too, and zooming in on the pics I took I notice just now there are even some with just short nubs of tails left. So cool that they are reenacting the literal step made in the late Devonian for us all. And quite a few people have been watching and enjoying, someone even fed them bread. The do seem like they might be toads rather than frogs, though I still need to wrap my head around the difference there. They don't look like the black-cheeked froglets of Rana temporaria I'm familiar with from my childhood on amphibian-starved Ireland. Their heads are big, look a bit angrier, and their toes don't seem to have much in the way of webbing. But they're tiny, so it's hard to say. On 30 May saw a fantastic display of water-vibrating singing by big green shiny plastic-looking edible frogs (!) in the pond in front of the greenhouses in the Botanic Garden.
