They were indeed swifts on the 27th! Now to be heard screaming and scything through the skies all over the place - field, town and Tal.
Grasses now as tall as me and many more species flowering. Red and white clover in flower as of today. Cow parsley seen first in the Derletal on the 28th, now lining the road, first umbellifer. More than one dandelion-esque flowered plants around now. The dandelions themselves look different growing in the Messdorfer Feld compared with in town or in the forest. Their stems are redder and thicker - a response to the stronger sun out in the field? Or the presumable fertilised nutrient content of the soil?
Scorpion flies seen around on leaves in the Derletal the past week. Red damselfly in garden. Shield bug in Derletal. Ladybirds. Ants, green crickets in Messdorfer Feld. Starting to see interesting beetles: Oedemera flavipes, Pyrochroa coccinea, Clytus arietis (subject of an impressively detailed Wikipedia pages), Phylobius, Cantharis fuscas. Philodromus aureolus. Coenonympha pamphilus (ok this one too has a long and detailed Wikipedia entry!)
Major excitement on the 3rd May: went off the path for once and down to the water to find it was filled with hundreds of tadpoles! Haven't seen any in years due to a too-urban existence. Fond childhood memories of paddling pools filled with them, fed on kibble, hundreds of froglets being freed, don't hold them for long it'll burn their cold-blooded skin. I wanted one for myself and kept it in a jar in my room, it just grew bigger and bigger as a tadpole but never metamorphosed until I put it back outside - needed the cold nights to count time's passage? Wonderful watching them wriggling in the golden water. I had totally misjudged the first pond as lifeless, ruined by human intervention, loss of trees and subsequent loss of kingfisher since digger dredging over winter. But no it is filled with wriggling life! Pond skaters and tadpoles aggregrating on either side of the plane of the surface around flotsam branches. Fewer tadpoles visible on subsequent visits - predation, time of day, light conditions? Hope to be able to see development and metamorphosis progress of some. 3 May tadpoles, followed by yellow flag iris pseudocorus downstream.
Lots of herbs growing up but without flowers I can't identify. Elderflower. Mock strawberries and a terrapin afloat in the pond. Leaves on trees starting to be holey and ragged from all the insects eating them.
