If I close my eyes I can just about conjure myself back to the Derletal (Manderley?) and to my daily paths there, trodden over the past months, despite now, having taken a southward leap of over one thousand km or 8 degrees of latitude, being in another ecosystem entitrely. 
In my last days in the Derletal before flight, it finally felt as though there were a good few butterflies of different species: Speckled Wood, whites, Red Admiral and Purple Emperor (Napoleonic vibes?). We saw a hare running up and down the fence in the Hardtberg Bad carpark, looking like it wanted into the military complex. I hadn't thought of it hefore, but it probably has regularly mown extensive fields there, for aircraft and so maybe good habitat for hares. Anyway it was good to see a large-ish mammal there, the first besides ubiquitous Homo sapiens and Canis lupus familiaris. 
I was pleasantly surprised to find I couldn't see any change or damage to the place despite hosting a small music festival at the end of June. A bit more litter and the grass in the meadow a bit yellowed from having stalls and beer wagons blocking its sun. The songthrush was back singing in the alders even. I didn't manage to see the toadlings before leaving/after the Fest. 
I cycled through the Messdorfer Feld at some point too in the last week of June and it sizzled with cricket song.
Now here, in Shanghai, Grosseto, the rattle scraping rhythmic fry of the cicadas is anywhere and everywhere there is a big tree, usually a Pinus pinea. We are near the edge of the Pineta and the macchia on the dunes so can hear them at all times apart from a few hours at night where crickets and scops owls sing instead. The scops owls start their booping on average at 10pm, which is also when the cicadas stop, when it is dark; and blackbirds take over at around 5am, for a brief period of birdsong that will be otherwise drowned out by the cicadas for the rest of the day, or muted because of the rippling heat. Italian sparrows hop around the tables of the bagni with open beaks. Wood pigeons and collared doves can be heard, and sardinian warbler and firecrest if you are close.
Magpies are about too. Funny how some species are both here and in the Derletal, points in common spanning a continent, transalpine, deciduous temperate woodland and Mediterranean coastal scrubland. They are blackberry, magpie, wood pigeon, wild carrot. I will look out for others. In town in a park by the wall, there was white clover, dandelions and jackdaws. Pigeons too of course. Malva, chicory - also found in Hardtberg but more common and woodier here. Swifts, swallows and house martins. Yellow-legged gulls - they nest on the Rhine and can sometimes be seen sailing over Bonn. Here their footprints are on the sand, but they only come down when the humans are gone. Not bold like the herring gulls at home, or the yellowlegs in Rome. 
Little egret, sandwich terns. Poseidonia strips in the water more in the afternoon. Podarcis muralis lizard. I need to get familiar with the plants and butterflies, insects, of the pineta and macchia. Lots of butterfly species including swallowtail, Cleopatra, geranium bronze, whites, Melanargia galathea the marbled white, and Limenitis reducta the southern white admiral. Ants more active, more species, though they hide in the day. 
