## First post

Yesterday in the Derletal I saw the first oak and ash leaves of this spring, and beech in the understorey. Quercus robur and Fraxinus excelsior, I think, and Fagus sylvatica. I would say that more than 50% of the trees and bushes in the park now have leaves, unfurling over the past month, but the beeches, oaks and ashes are just starting, and walnuts haven't started yet, though have their catkins, big green caterpillar-like on the ground. The plane trees in the town have just started leafing out too, with their small brownish or at least off-green leaflings. Horse chestnut and hornbeam were the tall forerunners.

The meadows have just been mown, but flowering at the moment are dandelions, garlic mustard, ground ivy, Corydalis, Pulmonaria officinalis, lots of tall pinky white cuckooflower. First in the year we had crocuses, followed by wood anemones, celandine, violets. There was Baerlauch but it's been overtaken by the rapidly growing nettles along the stream.

Blackcaps, chiffchaffs, robins, wrens, blackbirds, wood pigeons, stock doves, goldcrest, great tits, blue tits, great spotted woodpeckers, pied flycatcher, magpies, jays, carrion crows, buzzards, goshawk. Active, singing, displaying, chasing each other. I saw blackbird fledglings, the first brood I imagine. I need to remember to bring binoculars.

Butterflies: brimstone appeared over a month ago, joined quickly by peacock, one red admiral, orange tip, a white. Hoverflies and honeybees have been seen... it seems kind of few to me but maybe it is early. I did see a bat one evening. We spent a lot of time by pools of stagnating water so would surely have attracted mosquitoes if there were any, but none yet!
