## Another look
I went back on another round of the park today, entering via the underpass at the end of Im Goeseler and turning left at the bottom of the hill to cross 
the stream where it emerges first from the thicket. I checked and was wrong - what I thought was an ash was actually a walnut leafing
out! So the walnuts are leafing out, and the ash has only its brown flowers and black buds. The oaks are flowering and I think they are 
Q. robur. I forgot loads of other trees that are already in leaf: hazel and elder were among the first, a month ago. Hazel catkins have 
to be the earliest sign of spring here, and in Ireland. Birch and willows. The five-petal-blossomed Rosaceae trees like Crataegus, Malus, Pyrus
and Prunus. I can't distinguish them. More recently limes, alder, larch, dogwood. And today loads of maple, Acer, trees. I also can't distinguish
them, apart from A. campestre and A. pseudoplatanus - both well in leaf, other maples just starting. Also today, Robinia pseudoacacia. I wonder what the 
remaining bare trees are. Chestnut and elm?

New herbs in flower I noticed today are yellow Lamium galeobdolon, purple deadnettles, vetch, lords and ladies, strawberries, chickweed and a stork's bill.

Overcast, cold, patchy rain day. The meadows looked like velvet, silver sheen on them from the rain. The place smelled of petrichor and Mycena pura. During the hot dry weather 
we had a week ago, there was the smell of heather, though there is no heather to be found. Is the smell of heather the smell of baking nectar?
