##Late April

Larks are pouring their bubbling song down over the Messdorfer Feld, I don't know when they started as I don't go there often, but I heard them cycling there last weekend, happy to note the now-familiar contours of the land, Kreuzberg and beyond it Venusberg, and the wooded hills behind Alfter.

I first heard a willow warbler singing just a few days ago, from the window. Also from the window I have seen bats in the warm evenings, which makes me want to buy a bat detector. They seem bigger than pipistrelles. 

I have been comparing signs of spring with my mum, who is up in Donegal. There are willow warblers there and leaves on hazel, willow but not on ash. The gorse is a solid yellow wall. 

Alas no gorse here in Bonn, but as of last weekend the hedgerows are lined with Stellaria holostea, the ditch by the Schuetzenhaus lined with bittercress (not sure whether Cardamine hirsuta or flexuosa), the first buttercup Ranunculus, Veronica filiformis in spots on lawns, white deadnettle and I saw a blue butterfly and maybe a speckled wood. 

Cygnus and Lyra visible now in the dark of the early night, but Altair still under the horizon. The Big and Little Dippers have moved higher, directly overhead rather than closer to the horizon as they were just 3 or 4 months ago. 

I've found two species of grass in flower so far on my walks: Glatthafer and Knaeuelgras (Arrhenatherum and Dactylis).

I saw a man collecting Baerlauch from the bach by the Derlestrasse, another man collecting water plants from one of the algae-choked ponds and another man looking for something in the undergrowth - morels?

I saw some mushrooms: maybe a Kuehneromyces near the first (if you walk up from the town) pond, maybe a Pluteus in the woods proper beyond the Schuetzenhaus, and the beautiful Laetiporus sulphureus chicken of the woods that's appeared again on the same beleagured willow in Endenicher Stadtpark. I wonder will someone eat some of it? I'm (always) really rusty with shrooms after the winter.

Yesterday I thought I saw the first swift but then going out after noticed the starlings doing their sailing (fledglings? Display?) and wonder if I mistook them. But today, definitely, saw the first house martins, in Heidgen.
